Before we go too much further describing security GRC functions,
let's take a quick look at security controls
since I've referenced those controls a couple of times now.
Now generally, if asked,
you want to say there are three types of
security controls: detective, preventive, and reactive.
Some people talk about other security categories and they
might be called something along the lines of management controls.
But typically, I like to talk about these three major categories.
In fact, I think most of the
management controls roughly fit into the preventive category.
Detective controls are controls that are designed to detect ongoing risks or threats.
Some of the examples of these controls are things like intrusion detection systems,
user-behavior analytics, or even log management.
Preventive controls?
Those are designed to block bad behavior out of the gate.
Some examples of preventive controls?
Things like firewalls or web application firewalls.
Then there are reactive controls.
These are designed to allow you to react,
to detect the threats.
Some of those examples are things like
incident response plans or manual or triggered network isolation systems.
Now bringing it all back.
Now that we've added a little context to the control discussion,
I want you to keep this in mind as we go throughout the course.
But I will say most of the time we'll spend
discussing how GRC roles interact with the organization,
each other, and security controls.
But we won't actually be spending a lot of time
talking in detail about these controls themselves.